We would like to begin posing three questions and then answer those three questions first
What do we know about the resurrection?
Second, what don't we know about the resurrection?
And third, what should we do with what we know about the resurrection?
Well first, let's go to that first question posed. What do we know about the resurrection that will soon take place here on earth?
Well first of all, we know it's a guarantee. It's a promise that will be fulfilled.
And based on today's text at Acts 24 and verse 15, it says, there is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous as well as the unrighteous.
And just imagine what it will be like when that begins, when over 6,000 years of deaths are undone.
And those who were sleeping in the graves will come back to life.
What an amazing prospect. And as was pointed out, the first line in our Watchtower comments was pretty awesome.
And I'm sure you saw that too, that Jehovah wants people to live, not die.
So this is really a manifestation of Jehovah's power as well as his unfailing love for all mankind.
And Jesus reflected his father's love. In fact, he died in our behalf.
And he wanted to fulfill the promise he made at John, chapter 5, verses 28 and 29,
where he said, all those in the memorial tombs will hear his voice and come out.
All meaning all the righteous and the unrighteous. Those who are asleep will awaken.
They may have been long forgotten by humans, but Jehovah has never forgotten them.
They are right in his memory. Now, have you ever gone to an old cemetery and looked at some of the grave stones?
Some of the engraving has been worn off over years of weathering.
We don't even know who's buried in that burial plot. But Jehovah does, and he has it filed away
in his everlasting memory. So when we're talking about the righteous, that will come back.
Who are we talking about? Well, the righteous are the faithful men and women that have died before
Jesus' sacrificial death. And the other sheep who die during the last days.
And what about the unrighteous? Well, the unrighteous are humans, billions of humans who died
without really having an opportunity to know Jehovah, to get to worship him, or even apply
Bible truths. They will have the opportunity to get to know Jehovah, to draw close to him,
and to do his will. The March 2016 meeting workbook, you may recall this, had this scenario.
It said, instead of funerals, there may be welcoming sessions for the resurrected.
Wow, that's going to be so amazing for us to actually be there and experience these welcoming
type of meetings. And it posed two questions in that meeting workbook.
Which of your friends and relatives do you especially look forward to seeing again?
Now, there's probably some people going through your mind right now, like I am thinking about.
The second question, which Bible characters do you especially want to meet and talk to?
Again, a whole list is probably coming to our minds. Well, stay tuned.
Well, here's the question, what indication do we have as to the manner in which the resurrected ones
will take place? How will they come back? Well, based on 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 23,
we know that the heavenly resurrection of the anointed is done in an orderly way. As Paul said,
each one in his own proper order, Christ, the first fruits, afterward those who belong to the
Christ during his presence. So it would be progressive during that time. Now, since we know
Jehovah is a God of order, it's reasonable to conclude that the earthly resurrection will take
place in a logical and orderly way. Instead of having billions come back to life all at once,
we know that it would make much more sense that it would be done progressively so that as each one
is resurrected, they come to life, we can help them individually to their needs and their
circumstances. Well, what do we know about the physical and spiritual care resurrected ones
will receive at that time? Well, at the right time, at Jehovah's perfect timing, he will awaken them
and what will they find? They will find abundant housing, clothing, and food, all given to them
by whom? By those who will make it through this system and on into the next. Great tribulation
survivors, you and me. And we have a president to that. Remember when Jesus resurrected a little girl
and all those who saw that amazing miracle? What did he say to those who saw that? He said,
please, give the little girl something to eat. So he didn't say that at every time he resurrected
someone, but he knew her individual needs and he addressed those. And likewise, we will have that
privilege in this coming system. Most of us will have that privilege and think about all the training
that we have received here at Bethel and LDC and other areas of our organization that will be put
to use at that time. And think about the billions of the unrighteous ones that will be resurrected
that need to have spiritual instruction. They need to learn about Jehovah. They need to learn
about Jesus and the ransom sacrifice and how they can exercise that faith in the ransom.
Who will teach them? You will teach them. And hopefully I will teach them. And what will we use
as a basis to teach these ones who need to learn about Jehovah, Jesus and Jehovah's requirements?
Well, of course, the Bible will be something that we will use. But John's vision at Revelation 20 and
verse 12 gives us another clue. Now, let's turn there and read this together. Revelation 20 and
verse 12. It says, and I saw the dead, the great and the small standing before the throne, and
scrolls were opened. But another scroll was open. It is the scroll of life. The dead were judged out
of those things written in the scrolls, according to their deeds. Now, was this mentioning the
deeds of their past conduct or past deeds? No. This judgment will not focus on what they did before
they died. But how do we know that? Romans 6 and verse 7. As you recall, it says, for the one who
has died has been acquitted, or the footnote says, released or pardoned from his sin. So those who
come back to life, those who are resurrected will have a clean slate. What a relief for them
and for us because many of us do know many who did not worship Jehovah before they passed away.
So that clean slate is such a relief. So to live forever, there will be further
requirements for those who survive the great tribulation as well as those who are resurrected.
We need to learn and continue to obey those requirements and any new ones that might be
revealed by Jehovah during the thousand years. Well, what don't we know about the resurrection?
A lot. There's so many questions that we might have. Who will those who died recently be raised
near the start of Christ's thousand-year reign? Will the righteous be brought back first,
and then the unrighteous? Will they be welcomed by loved ones who know them? Will resurrection
take place in the area where people died? How will Jehovah range matters for those who were married
when they died? Will faithful men of old with leadership abilities come back to help to organize
matters? Well, how will theocratic spiritual food be given? Will there be a teaching committee,
a writing committee, or will another arrangement be made to provide spiritual food? Will there be
hard copies? Will there be electronic copies? Will there be videos? Will there be some sort of a JW
broadcast? We just don't know. We need to stay tuned and we need to be patient. It's good to
heed Jeremiah's advice. If you turn to Lamentations, chapter three. Notice there in Lamentations,
chapter three, verses 25 and 26, something that we want to focus in today in the meantime.
It says, good is Jehovah to the one hoping in him, to the person who keeps seeking him.
Good it is to wait in silence, or the footnote says, to wait patiently for the salvation of
Jehovah. So we know that in due course, all will be revealed by Jehovah. And as we rest our hope
on Jehovah and those in the future when they come back, they know that the one who will satisfy
the desire of every living thing will have all taken care of for us. All the answers will be given
to us. Jehovah has always given us what we need to be faithful now and he'll do the same in the
future. And now it's up to each and every one of us to prove our faithfulness, to put our hope
in that resurrection hope and share it with others. And hopefully someday, maybe a thousand years
from now, we'll look back and we'll say there was a resurrection of both the righteous and the
unrighteous.